java c
Math   3MB3   Final   Project -   Topic   Descriptions Each project includes a description of a base model and some possible extensions. Your group will need to fill in the details of the base model and analyze that, then choose ONE of the suggested extensions and modify your model to explore that extension. The exception to this is Project 4: Ontario’s Population which only has one suggested extension (since this project has you comparing results from two different places). Unless otherwise specified, you may construct either a discrete or continuous model. 
Project 1: Arms Race Imagine   two   economically   competing   countries: Purple    and   Green. Both   countries   desire   peace   and   hope   to   avoid   war. While   neither   country   will   go   out   of   its   way   to   launch   an   aggression,   it   also   wouldn’t   sit   idly   by   if their   country   was   attacked. Each   country   believes   in   self-defense   and   will   fight   to   protect   itself.    Both   nations   feel   that   the   maintenance   of   a   large   army   and   the   stockpiling   of   weapons   is   ”defensive”   when   they   do   it   but   ”offensive”   when   the   other   nation   does   it.In   this   project,   you   will   investigate   how   arms   spending   varies   over   time   in   each   nation,   based   on   various   assumptions   about   how   each   country’s   arms   buying   behaviour   influences   the   other.
Base model Let   p(t)   and   g(t)   represent   arms   spending   in   year   t   by   Purple   and Green,    respectively.   The   two   nations   are   in   competition,   so   there   is   an   underlying   sense   of   mutual   fear: the   more   one   nation   arms,    the   more   the   other   nation   is   incentivized   to   arm. To start,    we   could   assume   that   each   nation’s   armament   rate   is   directly   proportional   to   the   other’s   arms   spending   (these   should   be   linear   terms   in   your   model). We   may   also   want   to   account   for   the fact that excessive   armament expenditures   come   at   a   cost   to   each   nation’s   economy,   i.e.,   the   rate   of   change   of   each   nation’s   expenditures   is   directly   and   negatively   proportional   to   its   own   expenditure   (again,   these   should   be   linear   terms   in   your   model). Finally,   we   can   additionally   model   any   underlying   grievances   or   feelings   of goodwill   of each   country   toward   the   other   using   constant   terms.    The   sign   of   these   constant   terms   determines   whether   the   term   models   grievances,   which   increase   armament   spending,   or   feelings   of   good   will,   which   decrease   it.
Construct   a   continuous   model   to   describe   this   scenario. What   does   your   model   predict   for   the   long-term   arms   spending   of each   country?
Possible extensions 
Logisitic mutual fear For   the   mutual   fear   terms,   assume   that   there   is   some   inherent   limit   to   the   amount   a   nation   can   spend   on   armaments   each   year   (call   it   Kp      and   Kg for   Purple   and   Green,   respectively).   Then, you   could   replace   the   linear   terms   with   logistic   terms   (a(1−x/Kp   )y   and   b(1−y/Kg   )x).
Three nation model Imagine   there   is   a   third   nation   involved   and   build   a   model   for   armament   spending   between   three   mutually   fearful   nations.   You   could   also   consider   the   case   where   two   of the   countries   are   close   allies   who   are   not   threatened   by   the   arms   build   up   of   each   other   but   are   each   threatened   by   the   expenditures   of the   third   nation.
Project 2: Carbon Cycle Carbon   is   a   key   element   in terrestrial   ecosystems.    It   enters the   soil when   plants   die,   or   shed   leaves   and   branches   (called    “litterfall”, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plant_litt er);   it   leaves   the   system   by   being   turned   into   carbon   dioxide   by   bacterial   metabolism   or other   chemical   processes.   In   recent   history,   human   industrial   activity   has   begun to   interfere   substantially   with   the   biological   carbon   cycle   in   various   ways,   leading   to   climate   change (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climate_change).In   this   project,   you   will   model   carbon   cycling   (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon _cycle)   from   the   atmosphere   and   back   through   various   components   of   an   ecosystem   (e.g., plants, litterfall, humus   [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humus]) and examine the effects of   human   activity   on   this   cycle.
Base model Start   simply   by   tracking   carbon   levels   in   the   litter   on   a   forest   floor   alone (litter being naturally-occurring   debris   like   leaves,   branches,   and   deadfalls,   that   decay   over   time,   not   human-made   trash).    Let   c(t)   be   the   density   of   carbon   in   the   litter   at   time   t   (measured   in grams   of carbon   per   square   metre,   or   gC/m2   ).Assume   carbon   enters   the   litter   through   litterfall   continuously   at   a   constant   rate,   z,   and leaves at a rate proportional   to   the   amount   of   litter   currently   in   the   system   via   humification   (the   conversion   of   litter   into   humus). Set   up   a   simple   discrete-time   (or   continuous-time)   model   for   this   scenario   and   analyze   it.Now   account   for   atmospheric   carbon   by   assuming   that   humus   and   litter   both   respirate   carbon   dioxide   in to the   atmosphere   at   rates   proportion to the   amount   of   each   substance   in   the   system,   and   that   atmospheric   carbon   gets   converted   back   into   litter   via   plant   growth,   which   produce   litter   at   some   rate   proportional   to   the   number   of   trees.    Set   up   a   model   for   this   scenario.   You   may   find   it   easiest   to   set   up   one   state   variable   for   the   density   of   carbon   in   each   component   of this   system:   litter,   humus,   atmosphere,   and   plants.Finally, add some human   activity   to   the   model, and explore   the   repercussions.   For   instance, what if humans were to plant trees each year to draw out more atmospheric carbon?   What   if humans were to   cut trees   down to   use   this   natural   resource   to   produce   goods?    How   might   this   affect   model   predictions?
Possible extensions 
Expanded ecosystem Model more components of the carbon cycle:   plants   (subdivided into leaves, branches, stems,   and   roots),   litter,   humus,   and   stable   humus   charcoal,   denoted   by   x1   ,   x2   , ...x7   ,   respectively.   Atmospheric   carbon   flows   into   plants   via   photosynthesis. Leaves,   branches,    and   stems   in-   crease   the   carbon   in   litter,   which   then   increases   the   carbon   in   the   humus   via   humification.   Roots   increase   the   carbon   directly   in   the   humus   (not   via   litterfall). Humus   increases   the   carbon   in   the   stable   humus   charcoal   via   carbonization. Litter,   humus,   and   stable   humus   charcoal   all   increase   carbon   in   the   atmosphere   via   respiration.As   a   simplification, assume   that   the atmosphere   has   a   constant   carbon   content    (un-   changed   either   by   giving   carbon   to   plants   or   by   absorbing   carbon   from   the   litter,   humus,   or   stable   humus   charcoal),   since   it   contains   so   much   more   carbon   compared   to   the   other   components   of the   system.   You   can   therefore   imagine   that   the   atmosphere   is   outside   of the   system   and   only   model   the   other   components. The   atmosphere   simply   introduces   a   con-   stant   rate   of carbon,   z,   into the   system,   and   proportions p1   , ...,   p4    indicate   how   much   of this   constant   influx   of   carbon   gets   allocated   to   leaves,   branches,   stems,   and   roots,   respectively.   Parameters   kij give   the   rate   of   carbon   flow   from   xi      to   xj   .    Any   carbon   going   back   into   the atmosphere   can   be   thought   of   as   simply   leaving   the   system,   which   occurs   at   rate   ki0 for   carbon   flowing   from   xi to   the   atmosphere.
A   compartmental   diagram   of this   model   is   as   follows:
Model   parameters   for   various   ecosystems   can   be   taken   from   the   following   table,   which   comes   from   ”A   Simulation   Study   for   the   Global   Carbon   Cycle,   Including   Man’s   Impact   on the   Biosphere”   by   Goudriaan   and   Ketner:
(The   unit   Gt   is   Gigatonnes,   or   a billion tonnes, where   1 tonne   (metric   ton)   =   1000   kg   =
1   Mg.)Note   that   the   “leaving   litter”   flow   does   not   distinguish   between   carbon   leaving   litter   by humification   or   respiration.    The   humification   factor   h   gives   the   proportion   of   the “leaving litter” flow   that   goes   into   the   humus, which   leaves   1−h   of   the   flow   togo   into   the   atmosphere via   respiration.   Similarly, the   “leaving   humus” flow   must   be   divided   into   the   proportion   that goes   into   the   stable   humus   charcoal   via   carbonization,   c,   and   the   proportion   that   goes   into   the   atmosphere,   1 − c.
You could consider one or several   ecosystems   based   on   the   parameters   in   the   above   table,   and   compare   the   predicted   carbon-cycling   behaviour   between   ecosystems.
Seasonal parameters Many parts of the world experience   seasonal   climate   variation,   which   affects   the   growth   and   decay   of   plants.    Consider   some   seasonal   variation   in   plant-related   flows    (e.g.    by   assuming   that   some   or   all   of per-capita   plant-related   flow   rates   are   not   constant   but vary   sinusoidally   with   a   period   of   a   year).   How   does   this   change   your   model   predictions?
Project 3: Drugs in the Body The   way   in   which   drugs   are   administered   to   individuals   and   then   metabolized   by   the   body   is   of   great   concern   in   pharmacology   and   medicine:      drug   dosage   over   time   must   be   high   enough   for   some   period   to   have   a   medicinal   effect   on   the   patient,   but   not   so   high   that   they   may   overdose.   There   are   various   drug   delivery   methods   available   to   those   designing   patient   therapies.   Metabolic   pathways   also   vary   depending   on   drug   administration   and   type.
In this project, you will compare the effects of various drug delivery methods and   metabolic   pathways   on   a   patient’s   dosage   over   time.
Base model The   rate   at   which   the   body   processes   drugs   depends   on   two   factors:   the   rate   at   which   the   drug   is   administered   and   the   drug   processing   rate.      Let   A(t)   be   the   amount   of   a   drug   in   the   body      (in   milligrams)   at   time   t.       Then   we   can   denote   the   dosing   rate   D(t),   which   is independent   of   the   current   amount   of   drug   in   the   body   A(t),   and   the   processing   rate   P(A),   which   does   depend   on   A.   Then the   model for   A(t)   can be   cast   as   an    “inflow   minus outflow”   relationship:
As   a   first   pass,   assume   that   a   total   of   Dtot      mg   of   the   drug   is   given   intravenously   at   a   constant   rate   of   r   mg/hour   for   the   first   h   hours,   at   which   point   drug   administration   ceases:

We also assume that drug processing occurs linearly, proportionate to the   amount   of drug   currently   in   the   system:   P(A) = cA,   where   c   is   the   clearance   rate.
Note that, while D(t) is piecewise, you can split   the   domain   into   t   ∈   [0, h] and   t   ∈   (h,∞),   and   then   study   what   is   happening   in   each   piece   of the   domain   to   get   a   sense   of the   overall   dynamics.Assume the d代 写Math 3MB3 Final Project - Topic Descriptions
代做程序编程语言rug is given as a   pill that   is   designed   to   dissolve   slowly.    As the pill   dissolves,   less   and   less of the   medication   is released.    At   any   instant, the rate   of release   of the   drug   can   be   modelled   by   D(t) = Dmaxe−t/h.    Calculate   how   much   of   the   drug   is   released   by   the   pill   in the   time   interval   [0, h].    Compare   this   dosage   plan   to   the   intravenous   plans   you   previously   explored.
Possible extensions 
Logistic drug metabolism Assume   that   instead   of   P(A)   =   cA      (exponential   drug   clearance),   the   drug   is   metabolized logistically,   i.e.,   P(A)   =   cA(1   − A/K).    Explain   how   one   might   interpret   the   new   logistic parameter   K   in   this   context.   How   does   this   change   the   amount   of drug   in   the   bloodstream   over   time,   compared   to   the   intravenous   treatment   plans   explored   previously?
Intermediate absorption compartment Consider a compartmental model where the drug needs to enter   another   compartment   before   becoming bio-available   (e.g., it is injected in the blood but   needs   to   diffuse   into   organs   before   it can be used, or it is   swallowed   into   the   digestive   system   and   needs   to   diffuse   into   the   blood   stream).      Model   the   amount   of   drug   in   each   part   of   the   body   over   time   (blood,   digestive   system,   organs—whichever   apply   in your   context)   as well   as the   diffusion   processes   between   these   body   parts.    Make   a   variety   of   assumptions   for   the   diffusion   mechanisms   and   explore   how   these   affect   model   results.
Project 4: Ontario’s Population In   order   to   plan   for   the   future,   governments   often   use   projections   of   population   size   to   project   demands   on   social   services.      Various   factors   affect   population   size:    births,    deaths,   immigration,   and   emigration.
In   this   project,   you   will   build   a   demographic   model   to   project   Ontario’s   population   growth   or   decay   in   the   future.
Base model The   base   model   for   this   project   will   focus   on   population   changes   in   California   compared   to   the   rest   of   the   United   States.   You   will   then   extend   this   to   do   something   similar   for   Ontario’s   population   compared   to   the   rest   of   Canada,   and   compare   between   Ontario   and   California.Let (t)   denote   the   populations   of   California   and   the   US   excluding   California   at   timet,   respectively   (so   the   first   component   is   California’s   population   and   the   second   is   the   rest   of the   US).   The   following table   gives   population values   in   1955   and   1960,   along with   births,   deaths,   and   net   migrations   (immigrations   -   emigrations)   between   these   two   regions:

Note   that   these   population   counts   are   in   units   of   1,000   people. Use   this   information   to   calculate   the   per-capita   rates   associated   with   each   process   by   filling   in   the   following   table:

Two   rates   have   already   been   computed   for   you   so   that   you   can   verify   your   calculations   are   sound.Set   up   a   matrix   model   of   the   form   P(t   + 1)   =   (I   +   B   -   D   +   M)P(t),   where   the   matricesB   ,   D   ,   M    are   birth,    death,   and   net   migration   matrices,   respectively   (which   should   all   be diagonal),   and   I   is   the   identity   matrix.   Explain   why   I   is   needed   here.   Using   the   1955   data   and the rates you computed, verify that your model   accurately   predicts   the   1960   population.Simulate   the   model   to   2020   and   verify   your   predictions   against   the https://www.cens us.gov/data.html).    How   close   were   you   predictions   to   the   actual   outcomes?    What   may have   caused   discrepancies   between   you   projection   and   the   true   outcomes?What   does   your   model   predict   in   the   long   run   for   the   population   distribution   between California   and   the   rest   of   the   US    (as   t      →    ∞)?       You    may   find   it   easier   to   perform   this   analysis if you define a general ”growth” matrix G   = I   +B   -D+M.   What   is the   long-term   rate   of growth   of the   population   of California?   What   proportion   of US   residents will   live   in   California   in   the   long   run,   according   to   your   model?Now   work   with   immigration   and   emigration   separately   (instead   of   looking   at   net   migra-   tion).   Migration   between   the   two   regions   is   summarized   in   the   following   table:
Ignoring   births   and   deaths, construct a   matrix   model   of   transitions   between   regions   with   the   form   P(t   + 1)   =   TP(t).    Again,   simulate   the   model   to   2020   and   compare   it   with US   census   estimates.       Discuss    any    discrepancies. Determine    the    long-term    behaviour    of   the   model,   including   the   long-run   growth   rate   of   California’s   population,    as   well   as   the   population   distribution   within   the   US.   How   do   these   results   compare   to   the   earlier   model   with   births,   deaths,   and   net   migration?
Possible extensions 
Comparing to Ontario and Canada Apply   your   model   to   Ontario   and   the   rest   of   Canada.    Look   for   realistic   parameter   values   using   census   data   from   Statistics   Canada https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recen sement/index-eng.cfm.   Use   your   model   to   make   projections   for   the   population   past   2022.How   do   your   estimates   compare   with   those   from   Statistics   Canada https://www150.statc an.gc.ca/n1/en/catalogue/91-520-X?      Explore   their   projection   methodology   to   explain any   differences   between   your   projections   and   theirs.
Project 5: Conservation and Wildlife Management It   is   important   for   ecosystems   that   the   organisms   within   it   remain   in   balance.    If   there   are too   few   members   of   species   X,   it   could   go   extinct,   which   may   cause   problems   for   other   species   that   rely   on   X    as   a   food   source.    In   this   case,   humans   may   undertake   conservation   efforts to save species X   .    On the other   hand,   if species   X    is too   abundant,   it   may   deplete   its   main   food   source,   which   could   pose   a   risk   to   other   species   that   feed   on   the   same   organism.   Here,   humans   may   consider   wildlife   management   strategies,   like   hunting,   to   keep   species   X   from   growing   too   abundant.
In   this   project,   you   will   model   an   organism’s   population   and   the   effects   of various   con-   servation   and   wildlife   management   strategies   on   the   that   population.
Base model Many species of   wildcats are endangered, including the bobcat.   To better understand bobcat   population   dynamics, we   will   construct   an   age-structured   model   for   a   bobcat   population   with 16 age classes.    This model should include survival and reproduction,   as in the   age-structured   model   explored   in   lecture.   Use   the   following   parameters   in   your   model:

Note   that, just   as   in   lecture, we   are   only   tracking   bobcats   that   can   give   birth,   and   these parameters   reflect   that   assumption.Draw a compartmental model diagram and use it to derive a general matrix model for thiscontext   (“general” meaning   with   symbols   for   parameter   values) of   the   form   P(t+1) = MP(t).
Use   the   best   and   worst   case   parameters   in   the   model   to   determine   the   long-term   model behaviour   under   each   scenario.    What   is   the   long-term   growth   rate   and   distribution   of   the   population   in   each   case?Now   consider   an   intervention   strategy   where   constant   numbers   of   young   bobcats   (aged   0-2)   are   added   to   the   population   each   year   through   breeding   and   conservation   programs.   How   does   this   change   your   model   predictions?
Possible extensions 
Hunting Assume   now   that   instead   bobcats   are   overly   abundant   and   the   local   conservation   authority   is   worried   that   they   will   overconsume   their   prey   and   potentially   endanger   them.   Model   the   scenario   where   adult   bobcats   are   now   instead   hunted   at   a   constant   rate   each   year   (bobcats   aged   3   and   older).      What   does   the   model   predict   will   happen   in   the   long   term?      Suppose   instead   that   the   hunting   rate   is   proportional   to   the   current   bobcat   population.    How   much   hunting   can   the   bobcat   population   sustain   before   it   too   becomes   endangered   (i.e.,   its   long-   term   growth   rate   predicts   a   decline)?
Catastrophes Model the   occurrence   of sudden   catastrophes to the   population   every   n years.    Catastrophes   lower   each   age’s   reproduction   rate   by   some   proportion p.    Explore   various   parameter   values   for   n   and p   and   discuss   the   resilience   of the   population.
Project 6: Ebola The   way   in   which   an   infectious   disease   spreads   in   a   human   population   depends   on   many   factors, some of which are specific to   the   disease   and   population   being   studied.    For instance,   in   the   2014   West   African   Ebola   epidemic,   some   disease   transmission   occurred   at   funerals,   as   a   result   of contact   between   susceptible   individuals   and   individuals who   had   recently   died   of   Ebola.In   this   project,   you   will   extend   a   simple   disease   model   to   account   for   transmission   at   funerals.    You   may   also   consider   other   extensions   appropriate   for   modeling   the    2014   West   African   Ebola   epidemic.
Base model We   explored the   SIR   (susceptible/infected/recovered)   model   in   lecture. There   are   hundreds   of variants of the   SIR model dealing with   various   complexities   of   disease   biology   and   human   society.    One   variation   is   the   SHERIF   model http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/ article/pii/S1755436517300233,   developed   to   analyze   the   recent   West   African   Ebola outbreak,   which   adds   Hospitalized,   Exposed,   and   Funeral   compartments   to   the   SIR   model   (the   order   is   chosen   for   pronounceability).To   make   things   simpler,   consider   the   SIFR   model,   which   includes   transmission   caused   by   contact   occurring   at   funerals.       This   model   can   be   encoded   in   the   following   system   of   equations.
Explain   what   each   term   in   the   model   equations   denotes,   and   what   the   parameters   rep-   resent. Explore   the   long-term   behaviour   of   this   model. What   does   it   predict   for   various   parameter   values?Add   vital   dynamics,   i.e.,   births   and   deaths,   to   the   model:      dS/dt   gains   a   +µN   - µS   term;   the   other   compartments   use   a   loss   term   with   a   per   capita   rate   µ   (e.g.    -µI   for   the   I compartment))   and explore the long-term behaviour   of the   model.    (If   necessary,   drop   the   F   compartment   and   analyze   the   SIR   equation.)
Possible extensions 
Controlling funeral spread Model   public   health   interventions   that   reduce   transmission   at   funerals   by   diverting   some   people   from   I   directly   to   R   without   going   through   F.   How   does   this   change   model   predic-   tions?
Add exposeds and hospitalized individuals 
Add   the   E   and   H   terms   to   produce   a   full   SHERIF   model.   Compare   this   model’s   results   to   that   of the   SIFR   model   analyzed   previously   (with   and   without   vital   dynamics).

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
